document stage list (#2245)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/stage/list.md

# stage list

> List <abbr>stages</abbr> in the `dvc.yaml`.

Reviewer: in the project (since it's not only about _the_ `dvc.yaml`)

## Synopsis

```usage
usage: dvc stage list [-h] [-q | -v]
                      [-R] [--all] [--fail]
                      [--names-only]
                      [targets ...]

positional arguments:
  targets          Show stages from a dvc.yaml file or a directory (with -R).
                   'dvc.yaml' by default.
```

## Description

> `dvc stage list` is useful for quick listing of stages present in the dvc.yaml

Reviewer: `dvc.yaml` (inline code)

Reviewer: here also - it's not only about _the_ `dvc.yaml` I think

file without having to open it.

It provides a list of stages, with a stage name and the description of the
stage. The description of the stage is read from
[`desc` field in the `dvc.yaml` file](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#stage-entries),
or if it does not exist, DVC generates the short description from the other
metadata it has about the stage.

DVC also uses this command to provide autocompletion in `bash` and `zsh`.

## Options

> - `targets` (optional command argument) - Stages to list from (`./dvc.yaml` by

Reviewer: Stages -> stages

  default). Different things can be provided as targets depending on the flags
  used (more details in each option). Examples:

>   - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml`: Specific `dvc.yaml` file to reproduce

Reviewer: reproduce -> list

  - `dvc stage list -R pipelines/`: Directory path to explore recursively for
    `dvc.yaml` files
  - `dvc stage list train-model`: Specific stage name or a
    [foreach group](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#foreach-stages)
    in `./dvc.yaml`
  - `dvc stage list modeling/dvc.yaml:prepare`: Stage or a
    [foreach group](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#foreach-stages)
    in a specific `dvc.yaml` file

- `-R`, `--recursive` - looks for `dvc.yaml` files to list from in any
  directories given as `targets`, and in their subdirectories. If there are no
  directories among the targets, this option has no effect.

> - `--all` - lists all of the stages present in the repo, regardless of the

Reviewer: does it looks for all `dvc.yaml`s? may be we can be a bit more explicit on this (it is alternative `dvc stage list -R .`?)

Author: Yes, it looks for all the `dvc.yaml` files inside the repo, but it's not the same as `dvc stage list -R .` but to the `-R $(dvc root)`.

Author: @shcheklein, something like this?

```suggestion
- `--all` - lists all of the stages from all `dvc.yaml` files in the repo, regardless of the
```

Reviewer: sounds good!

  targets.

> - `--fail` - fails immediately if any `dvc.yaml` files have syntax errors. By

Reviewer 2: Does `--fail` check for syntax errors or schema errors?

Author: Yes, by default, all of the syntax errors that happens when loading them (yaml error, schema error and foreach resolve errors, etc.) are suppressed. `--fail` will immediately throw on any of those errors.

  default, those errors are skipped. This option is only in effect if `--all` or
  `-R` is used.

> - `--names-only` - Only lists the name of the stages. It can be useful for

Reviewer: Only -> only

stage. The description of the stage is read from
[`desc` field in the `dvc.yaml` file](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#stage-entries),
or if it does not exist, DVC generates the short description from the other
metadata it has about the stage.

Without any targets, by default, it only lists the stages from the `dvc.yaml`
present in the current working directory.

DVC also uses this command to provide autocompletion in `bash` and `zsh`.

## Options

- `targets` (optional command argument) - stages to list from (`./dvc.yaml` by
  default). Different things can be provided as targets depending on the flags
  used (more details in each option). Examples:

  - `dvc stage list linear/dvc.yaml`: Specific `dvc.yaml` file to list from
  - `dvc stage list -R pipelines/`: Directory path to explore recursively for
    `dvc.yaml` files
  - `dvc stage list train-model`: Specific stage name or a
    [foreach group](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#foreach-stages)
    in `./dvc.yaml`
  - `dvc stage list modeling/dvc.yaml:prepare`: Stage or a
    [foreach group](doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#foreach-stages)

>     in a specific `dvc.yaml` file

Reviewer 3: Just one Q guys: I thought we didn't want the "group" term for `foreach` stages? BTW I'd be happy to adopt this but requires some changes to the dvc.yaml guide (for context).

Reviewer 2: So in the example:

```yaml
stages:
  cleanups:
    foreach: # List of simple values
      - raw1
      - labels1
      - raw2
    do:
      cmd: clean.py "${item}"
      outs:
        - ${item}.cln
```

It looks like both of these are supported:
`dvc stage list cleanups`
`dvc stage list cleanups@raw1`

That's great!

Maybe we could describe `cleanups` as a `foreach key`, or is that too technical? Is this even worth documenting? It seems pretty intuitive to try `dvc stage list cleanups` in this scenario.

Reviewer 3: "foreach key" seems a bit technical.

Maybe it's not worth being so explicit indeed, and we can just say "Stage(s)" (here and in https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/repro#options)

> dvc stage list cleanups@raw1

That may need documenting though. We currently say "in dvc.yaml" and `cleanups@raw1` really exists in dvc.lock... ⌛

Reviewer 3: See #2380.

Reviewer 3: I mean #2369.

Reviewer 2: Good point. It's confusing, but not sure whether it's worth it to worry about the specifics here. Is there even a use case for `dvc stage list cleanups@raw1`?

Reviewer 3: 🤷 maybe not but keep in mind this also applies to `repro`.
